# 538_Baseball
### Created for the PythonNola meetup, as part of an exercise we were each working on individually
#### The idea for the project came from here: https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/can-you-turn-americas-pastime-into-a-game-of-yahtzee/
This is a puzzle which describes the rules to a board game version of baseball, where the players would roll a pair of six-sided dice, and compare the outcome of the roll against a table, which would provide the baseball outcome; for example, (2, 6) would be "foul out" and (5, 5) would be double play.  We all decided to write Python code that would answer the first question asked by the puzzle:  "Given those rules, what’s the average number of runs that would be scored in nine innings of this dice game?"
If one were to play this game the way it is described, "in real life," one would roll the dice and keep track of the progress of the scores and passing innings using pencil and paper.  For example, one might roll the dice six times and get a 1,2; 4,6; 3,2; 3,4; 5,1; and 4,2.  Consulting the chart one could see that the result of these six rolls would be a single, a fly out, a strike, an out at first, a base on error, and a strike.  It looks like there are now two outs, a man on first, and another man on third.  Any half of an inning will consist of at least three rolls (if each roll happens to result in an out), and I would roughly estimate there is an average of around 9 rolls per half an inning, or 18 rolls per inning.  Since there are nine innings in a game (if the game is not tied at the end of the ninth inning) that's around 162 rolls of the dice that need to be recorded and interpreted into action sequences.  This is what makes the problem such a great candidate for automation!
I wrote this code in an effort to approach the project from a functional perspective.  I started by creating D6D6.py, which essentially rolls two six-sided dice and returns the value showing on the face of each die.  This module can be run on its own, or imported into another project.  When DiceAct.py is run, it imports the logic from D6D6 and runs it, then assigns an action to the outcome of the dice roll.  ActOutcomes.py is an intermediary module that runs the first two modules, and BBPlay.py takes all the previous modules and uses them to simulate a baseball game, returning the number of runs scored by both teams put together in a single game. 
AvgBB.py runs BBplay.py 10,000 times, and returns the average number of runs scored per game.
